this video is sponsored by Nordby pn
stay secure online by going to nord VPN
comm / side note and get 70% off the
three year plan and an additional month
free in the year 1981 the American
airline industry was going through some
drastic changes after the implementation
of the airline deregulation Act of 1978
American Airlines a leading aviation
company reported a loss of 76 million
dollars the company urgently needed some
cash for expansion but interest rates
were record high so they decided to use
their customer base to generate cash
someone in management had a brilliant
idea they would offer a lifetime free
first class air travel pass to their
wealthiest customers the Travel Pass
would be truly limitless no sneaky
conditions apply limitation attached to
the scheme the person holding this pass
could fly in American Airlines at any
time they wanted to any destination they
wanted for as many times as they wanted
for the rest of their life after paying
a one-time fixed membership fee the
entry price of the pass was set to be
250 thousand dollars and adjusted for
inflation around seven hundred thousand
dollars in today's money quite a lot but
look at what you were getting a truly
luxurious service for a lifetime for a
multi-millionaire who travels a lot this
was a pretty good deal for an additional
150 thousand you could add a companion
pass which allows you to take a partner
with you on all your traveling
adventures if you can't quite grasp
what's being offered here let me paint a
picture for you on a fine Saturday
morning you could fly to London for our
nice brunch then a Paris for a lovely
evening
the next day you could be in South Korea
for a concert or in Hong Kong for
shopping and then back to your home by
Monday using American Airlines flights
connecting all major cities in the world
you could do this every weekend for all
of your life different times different
locations not to mention the access to
the faster queue Admirals Club and
Americans VIP lounges that came free
with the pass once the costly part of
your vacation budget has been taken care
of
every holiday is a world
tor if you're a business person you'll
never have to worry about traveling
costs which is generally a big part of
business expenditure it was like owning
a fleet of world-class private planes
all for two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars if all of this sounds crazy to
you like who would fly to London just
for a brunch someone would actually do
that a total of 66 people realized what
a steal it was and signed up for the
program this includes some popular names
like baseball hall-of-famer Willie Mays
Americans Cup skipper Dennis Conner and
computer magnate Michael Dell two names
on this list are particularly important
Jacque room and Steve Rothstein these
two men would make the complete use of
their unlimited free travel passes and
would make American Airlines question
themselves why did they even start this
scheme Rothstein bought air pass and the
companion pass after spending a total of
three hundred and eighty three thousand
dollars and over the next 21 years he
proceeded to book more than 10,000
flights being a lover of flying
Rothstein flew wherever he could he flew
for work he flew for vacation and he
flew just for the sake of flying he took
1,000 flights to New York City alone 500
flights each to San Francisco Los
Angeles and London and close to a
hundred flights each to Tokyo Paris
Sydney and Hong Kong he was airborne
almost every other day he went to London
sometimes a dozen times a month he flew
to Ontario just for a sandwich and Paris
for a brunch he was getting the best
first class air travel service one could
possibly get at the time he would sleep
long night trips flight crew memorized
his name his preferences even his
favorite meal he bypassed long lines
booked flights for backup plans in cases
weekend plans changed or the weather
turned bad and never worried about
cancellation fees all air pass holders
were provided with private booking
agents from the company to solve the
toughest booking puzzles these agents
could help pass holders procure the
last-minute booking during festival
seasons or get the last seat on the only
plane leaving during a snowstorm so
booking hundreds of flights a month
wasn't a difficult job either in Steve
Rothstein's own words this was the best
investment he'd ever made one that
completely changed his life the other
guy Jacques vrooom did all of this and
he went a step further he bought an
unlimited pass and a companion pass for
a total of $400,000 the biggest purchase
he had ever made in his life he didn't
have all the cash so he took out a loan
at 12% interest but he knew what he was
getting himself into
Jacques vrooom traveled around the US as
well as Europe and other parts of the
world often staying at his destination
for just a few hours before flying back
again without spending anything when his
son was in college mr. broom would
regularly fly to Maine every Saturday to
watch him play football he also flew to
Washington DC to pick up his
father-in-law so he could babysit for
his children explaining to a bemused
passenger that it was cheaper than
paying a local teenager he used his
companion pass to regularly take friends
and family on worldwide trips as his
companion and even helped fly home AIDS
victims to see their families between
1990 and 2008 vrooom notched a total of
38 million miles two million miles per
year on average over 18 years in
comparison Rothstein acquired around 30
million miles they were undoubtedly one
of the most travelled persons in
aviation history if he can't quite get a
hold of these figures George Clooney's
character in the 2009 movie up in the
air collect a mere ten million air miles
and he was showered with attention the
airline increased the membership fee of
the unlimited air pass from 250,000 in
1981 to 600,000 in 1992 1.01 million in
1993 the airline ended sales of the
unlimited passes in 1994 except for a
one-time offer in the 2004 Neiman Marcus
Christmas catalog for three million
dollars for the pass and two million for
the companion pass no one bought it in
2007 American Airlines found itself in
financial trouble once again a pricing
analyst team was
to take a hard look at the company's
expenses especially their unlimited
travel pass what they found
rocked all levels of management the team
reported that the two top users of the
American air path scheme Steve Rothstein
and Jacque Froome were each costing the
airline 1 million dollars in taxes fees
and lost ticket sales per year in total
American Airlines had spent more than 40
million dollars to provide first-class
flights to these two pass holders and
their companions only the other users
weren't too far behind either they
racked up miles far beyond what the
airline had anticipated a user named
Mike Joyce from Chicago flew round-trip
to London 16 times in 25 days that alone
could retail for more than 125 thousand
dollars for the airlines the problem was
not only that the pass holders were
traveling too much but the bigger issue
was that they were booking too many
flights only to cancel them at the last
minute
Steve Rothstein made three thousand and
nine first-class reservations in less
than four years almost always booking
two seats but cancelled 2520 three of
them many times these canceled seats
either went unused or lower class
passengers were given free upgrades the
document unearthed by the LA Times shows
a list of bookings made by Jacques room
at a given time and many of these
bookings are unnecessary and duplicate
in the email an employee of the company
expresses concern over the bookings
Jacques forum makes but doesn't fly on
because the company is responsible for
the taxes on them
four hundred and nineteen dollars for
each ticket okay but none of these
actions were against the terms and
conditions of the scheme right you could
say that yeah these pass holders were
abusing the privilege but they had spent
hundreds of thousands of dollars for it
their risky investment had turned out to
be fruitful for them
American Airlines thinks otherwise after
a detailed investigation American
Airlines
accused Steve Rothstein of quote
speculative booking it was said that he
used his companion pass to book flights
in the name of passengers he had no
intentions of traveling with it allowed
him to hold seats until the last minute
and offer them to strangers preventing
the airline from selling them at
multiple instances Rothstein approached
other passengers for the first time at
the gate and offered them first-class
travel on his American Air pass
companion seat
the airline considered it fraudulent
behavior and terminated his air pass and
all the privileges that came with it
Steve Rothstein denied all allegations
and claimed that he didn't do anything
that was not permitted in the terms and
conditions something similar happened to
Jacques room as well the company found
that he used his companion pass to book
trips with people he'd never flown with
before traveling round trip to Japan or
Europe without even staying overnight it
was speculated that he was selling his
companion seat carrying people for money
on his companion pass for months
American Airlines tracked people vrooom
had previously flown with questioned
them and even pressured them to get a
confession that they had paid Jacque
room to travel on air pass Jacques room
said that he never sold a seat to anyone
and accused the airline of foul play
that the company was just looking for an
excuse to terminate his passes
American Airlines had made a bad
decision years ago it was hurting now
and now they were going after the most
vulnerable air pass holders for damage
control people knew they couldn't fight
back in July 2008 an American Airlines
employee handed jock vrooom a letter and
said he could never fly again on the
airline his passes were terminated
lawsuits were filed from both sides but
fighting a billion-dollar company is not
an easy job these men never got their
passes back since then a couple of other
pass holders have been denied their
access to the unlimited free travel
scheme while remaining pass holders
still use their passes to enjoy
unlimited first-class travel
so yeah that's it American Airlines may
not be able to keep their promise but
Nord VPN is always true to its promise
of providing you a super-fast
secure and uncensored Internet
experience Nord VPN is a well known name
everybody knows that it's an
award-winning VPN service that protects
your online identity and sensitive data
from falling into the wrong hands
especially when you use unsecured
connections it acts as a barrier between
you and every nasty thing that exists
out there on the Internet but that's not
the whole thing the reason I personally
like Nord VPN is because it's one of the
very few VPN services that work
flawlessly with Netflix and many other
streaming sites this feature allows me
to virtually change my location to
another country and then browse and
stream thousands of TV shows and movies
that aren't available in my country yet
without paying anything extra to the
streaming site more than 5,000 servers
in 58 countries make sure that your
streaming is high quality without any
buffer or lag on top of that you've got
Nord VPNs dedicated IP servers double
VPN servers and obfuscated servers for
extra security and uncensored Internet
the cyber sec feature blocks ads malware
and other threats at the very start so
that your internet experience is smooth
if you want to give Nord VPN a try
simply go to Nord VPN comm slash
sidenote and sign up for the program
you'll get 70% off the three year plan
plus an additional month free using the
coupon code side no they also offer a
30-day money-back guarantee so go to
Nord VPN comm slash sidenote and claim
your offer
[Music]
hi everyone I'm Alec Bellmore and I
narrate videos for sidenote I've got a
channel of my own that you can check out
using the link in the description thanks
for watching